now toast to moonshine it's perfectly
legal I assure you we shiners may not be
quite as crazy as in times past but
their exploits still cast a spell Tracy
Smith now cast a light on the
moonshiners then and now the Carolina
Piedmont is a place where traditions die
hard here among the rolling hills and
pastures you can still find a kind of
untrammeled beauty and you can still
find a still
this is the business end and that's corn
liquor moonshine the stuff of legend and
the inspiration for a song by country
artist Matt Stillwell
the term moonshine refers to spirits
produced and sold without paying the
taxes do an illegal brew often cooked up
by the light of the moon sociology
professor Chris Baker at night it was
much more difficult to see a fire and
that ultimately oftentimes made the
difference between getting caught not
getting caught these days you can get
legal shine this stuff Jr Johnson's
midnight moon is made by Piedmont
distillers of Madison North Carolina Joe
Michalik is Piedmont's founder so is it
really moonshine if it's legal well some
would argue that the moonshine by
definition is non tax paid liquor but
bars is following original moonshine
recipes it's almost 100 percent corn and
the only difference I would tell you is
that we have two permits in the licenses
otherwise it's a hundred percent
authentic and the taste is surprising I
mean it has a taste of vodka to it yeah
been a little a little sweep through it
right tastes a little sugar well the
heat is kind of overpowering to sweep it
no there's there's a sugar to it that's
the corn yeah the recipe comes from jr.
Johnson himself
you didn't really drink what your dad
made there's a little bit and got in
trouble with it too yeah jr. is no
stranger to trouble he grew up making
moonshine in the hills with his family
that's all the way they had really
surviving
it was anything you make wish carries of
hunger but Junior Johnson's real talent
was delivery his legendary driving
skills kept him ahead of pursuing lawmen
except for the one time he was caught
and sent to prison in time Junior and
some of his fellow former bootleggers
became heroes on the fledgling stock car
race circuit some of the major stock car
drivers and moonshiners of the day went
to world war 2 and many um learn to be
mechanics sometimes they worked on
airplanes sometimes they work on tanks
but when they came back from the war
they started working on stock cars and
they also learned how to transform the
engines and what they did during that
period those engines became NASCAR later
on jr. Johnson's story of a moonshiner
turned race car driver inspired the 1973
movie the last American Hero
in many people's eyes jr. really is the
last American hero but he isn't the last
American moonshine maker throughout the
United States there are illegal stills
in operation to this day they may look
nothing like the old-fashioned wood
barrels or copper kettles in the woods
but the basic process is the same from
the mixing of the corn and sugar mash to
the collection of the final product
it's been said that there will be
moonshine as long as there are people
who are proud of their heritage because
legal or otherwise moonshine tastes like
a tradition all right down was that a
good holler back